In the Bay Area, we are obsessed with arrival.
Have you noticed that?
Even the ways that we get places, it will tell us the time that we plan on arriving.
We live our lives in a constant state of future tense.
We are all tempted to tell the story of our lives
kind of this way in our minds, whether we realize it or not.
When I get the IPO, when we get acquired, then I'll finally be able to rest.
When I get that house in that neighborhood, then I'll finally choose to invest in real community.
When I get married or when we have kids, then we'll be happy.
For some of you, it's like when my kids move out, I'll finally be happy.
We treat wherever
We are right now, whatever moment we're in today, like it's the waiting room of where we hope will eventually be.
We ultimately treat our actual lives like we are commuting to the life we really dream of.
It's kind of our 21st century version of the Promised Land because we believe it's the life we deserve and secretly we wonder if the reason that we feel so alone or isolated from God is because God is waiting for us at the finish line of our self-constructed Promised Land.
And that works in Silicon Valley until it doesn't.
When the map breaks, when you lose the job, when the relationship fizzles, when depression returns, you can realize that maybe it feels like you're no closer than you were to the promised land of your own creation.
As a matter of fact, maybe it feels like you're further than you ever were.
You're actually in the desert of your life.
And honestly, those are moments when we start to sound a lot like kids on a long road trip.
If you have kids, you've heard this before.
If you've been around kids, you've probably heard this before.
But any trip, any experience of any distance, you will have kids in the back of the car that just sort of like with a little bit of a nasally annoyed sound go, are we there yet?
You know, which I just want to spotlight this for you.
If you're a kid that does this, I want you to understand what it used to be.
My parents used something called a map.
And that map, it was on something called paper.
And we didn't know when we were going to arrive somewhere.
But when my kids ask this question, I'm like, there's a giant screen that you can see.
And it actually tells you when we're going to get there.
And then if it's a long trip, you also have a screen.
Anyway, just a totally, that's just me venting for a minute, right?
And it's easy in a moment like that to like kind of joke around.
We understand the concept of time.
We know distance.
We know how long it's going to take.
And we just think that's cute that our kids do that.
But I wonder how many of us kind of sound a little bit like that with God.
And we're asking, like God, am I there yet?
God, am I to the part of my life that my life will finally make sense, where anxiety will finally subside, where I finally feel like I'm enough, like I've arrived.
See, we spend our whole lives leaning forward, trying to get a head start, get around this lower car, choose the right lane, straining to see the destination convinced that God is waiting for us across the finish line.
But what if he isn't?
What if the most disorienting fact about the wilderness reality of our lives is that God is actually waiting for us in the desert, not at the destination?
That the thing you think, I'll finally spend time with God when I get to where he is and he's been with you the whole time.
Today, across all of our campuses, we are starting a journey called Lent toward Easter.
It's the period of anticipation, of preparation.
It's a series we're calling, I Am, where we're going to look at these stories, these little vignettes through the Hebrew Scriptures, what we often call the Old Testament, where God gets close to people in painful and difficult situations as a reminder that that's actually what God still wants to do.
Today, it's about a God who he doesn't wait for you to get out of a mess to introduce yourself to him or intervene in areas maybe for you that feel overwhelming.
He wants you to walk with him in them.
We're going to look at Exodus 3 where a man named Moses shows us what this looks like.
His dream of the promised land had died decades earlier.
He had given up on that kind of life and he was stuck in the middle of nowhere, assuming the best days of his life and the best future that he could have imagined had already passed him by.
And that's exactly the moment that God chose to stop by.
But before we dive into the text, I'm just gonna invite you, no matter what you are walking in with today, some of you, you're here today and you have other work to do today.
Some of you are thinking about the week ahead of you or what's behind you and this idea of constantly living in anticipation of it, a future arrival, I would just say take a moment and stop the car, stop the commute, stop the race.
And let's just, maybe let's stop asking for a minute, are we there yet?
And thank God that he's here with us right now.
Would you pray with me?
God, we all come into a space like this, and Mountain View, and Saratoga, and San Mateo, and Menlo Park, online around the world.
And God, we have different needs.
We have different expectations.
We have different hopes.
And wherever we are, God, you are already there.
And so would you help us to relate to you, not as some far off, distant, disinterested being, but as someone who has come near, who is just as present today as you have ever been.
Help us to experience that in a new way today.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.
Now, before we open the text together, I know that when I say Moses, there's kind of a range of potential mental images that come to your mind.
Some of it is based on your upbringing, some of it is based on your age.
If you didn't grow up in church, or maybe you only received your mosaic history lesson from the Prince of Egypt, right?
Let me give you a quick refresher on Moses' life so that we're all coming to it at the same place.
Moses' life, think about it like three 40-year chapters.
He lived a long life.
In the first section of his life, Moses is born as a Hebrew slave under a death sentence from a tyrannical king.
As a matter of fact, his mom puts him in a basket and floats him down the river.
And while this sounds like child endangerment, what was really happening was trying to make the best option available in a very impossible situation.
And he's found by Pharaoh's daughter and ultimately adopted into the royal
family.
So this young man ends up growing up with the best education, the best food, the best life.
Think like tech billionaire's child era, right?
That's what he's in the midst of.
He's super heavily invested.
He has power.
He has status.
He has influence.
But around age 40, after decades of watching people who look like him face abuse, his own people, actually there's some scholars that believe he's trying to start an uprising and all of this sort of
Bubbles up.
One day, he sees an Egyptian guard beating a Hebrew slave, and after years of disengagement, with rage that had been brewing under the surface, he snaps, he kills the Egyptian, and he hides that person's body in the sand.
It didn't bring about the uprising that maybe he'd hoped.
As a matter of fact, a hit gets put out on him, and everybody turns on him.
Overnight, he goes from prince to pariah.
And as a result, he runs for his life into the desert to a place called Midian, which is kind of like moving to the middle of nowhere in a camper van with a flat tire.
His life was not headed in a great direction.
And that's where the story starts today.
But Moses has been there in the desert for 40 years.
Let that sink in for just a minute, like 40 more years.
He isn't a young revolutionary anymore.
He's an 80-year-old shepherd.
He went from ruling an empire to wiping sheep noses and probably more than just their noses for decades.
He went from the palace to working for his father-in-law.
Talk about a humbling slide.
He's not looking for God anymore.
He's not looking for purpose anymore.
He's looking for a lost sheep.
His linked in profile had long since been deleted for inactivity.
His dreams are buried with that Egyptian back in the sand.
He has assumed for decades that his story is over.
But as he rounds the corner on his daily rounds in the mountain called Oreb, he sees a bush that is on fire but not burning up.
And this little glitch in the matrix of the moment, and you're like, are you referencing the matrix?
I sure am, I'm a millennial.
This little glitch
In the matrix of the desert, all those years ago would change everything for Moses and for God's people.
So let's look at the first few verses of Exodus three together.
It reads this way.
Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian.
And he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Oreb, the mountain of God.
And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush.
He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed.
And Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned.
When the Lord saw he turned aside to see, God called him out of the bush, Moses.
Moses.
Now this is like a wild moment, but it's wild because of how ordinary it is.
This was just a random work day for Moses.
And while Hollywood may have added some other things to it and whatever version you've seen, or if we could do this now, we'd probably add a bunch of CGI onto whatever was happening.
For Moses, this was just a bush in a desert full of bushes.
Scholars believe that this was likely an acacia bush, a desert weed.
This was not unique.
And actually, it wouldn't have been that unique to see it on fire.
You're in the middle of a desert, and it was a dry plant in extreme heat.
What made it unique, what made it different was that this bush kept burning.
It didn't burn up, it didn't drop ash.
But note the detail in verse three.
Moses, he decides to stop and observe this unique moment on an ordinary day.
That moment, that pause is what God used as the moment to call him closer.
God didn't speak until Moses stopped, until Moses listened.
In a moment like this, we can catch the fire very easily when we read this passage, but we miss the moment if we're not careful.
The voice of God was not absent.
It was waiting for attention.
We should pay attention to that.
Sometimes people ask me why we don't hear God more regularly in 2026.
And I think there are a lot of good answers to that question, but it's certainly not because God has less to say in 2026.
I think at least part of the answer is we have less time, less attention and less interest to listen.
If we were to transport this moment to the typical Bay Area Moses, his headphones are in.
He's listening to a podcast on how to optimize sheep herding at 2x speed.
He's consulting AI, which back then was ancient intelligence, very different thing.
He was doing an all on a stone tablet, amazing battery life.
And he'd walk right by this bush, wouldn't he?
He'd be like, what fire?
He might see something in the distance, but in the midst of everything that he was trying to get done in that day, he might have thought, you know what, somebody else will take care of that.
That's not my problem.
But in this moment, Moses turns and he looks.
He deviates from his deadlines.
He allows his curiosity for God to override his productivity in the moment.
When's the last time you did that?
Here's a question for you.
How many burning bush moments have you missed this week on your way to your own self-constructed promised land?
How many times has God stopped and tapped you on the shoulder in a conversation with your spouse, a moment with your colleagues, your kids, your classmates, your neighbors, and you just optimized it away in your mind even in the midst of it.
You were already thinking, how can I be done with this?
What if your efficiency has squeezed out encounters with God in your life?
Not in the distant past, not decades ago, days ago.
See over and over and over again in the Bible, God describes himself as,
I am, the always ready, always existing creator and sustainer of the universe.
The problem is we have trouble seeing the signs of I am with a life that we are so addicted to I do.
When Moses makes time for it, he has an encounter that changes his entire life.
Verse five continues this way.
It says, then he said, do not come near.
Take your sandals off your feet for the place
on which you are standing is holy ground.
Now Moses had likely been to this specific place that he's in before.
Nothing about the dirt around him felt particularly holy.
The thing that made this place holy today is God's unique presence in it.
And it shows the necessity of the desert for Moses and for you and me.
Part of that is because the desert dismantles what deforms us.
The thing we didn't see coming, the thing that we have let attach itself to us
The desert clarifies all of it.
When God tells Moses to take off his sandals, it wasn't about hygiene.
In the ancient world, sandals were about protection.
They were a layer that separated you from the heat, from the thorns, from the filth.
They insulated you from your surroundings.
And God is saying to Moses that if we're going to do this, you're going to have to feel what's real.
You're going to have to look at yourself clearly in the mirror.
and face the facts of the moment.
Now, Moses had already had layers of himself removed over the course of decades, which tells you something about the more that needed to be pulled back.
He had lost his status as a prince.
He had lost his power in the Pharaoh's court.
He had lost his platform as a revolutionary.
He had lost control over his destiny.
And now God is asking for his shoes.
See, the desert, it dismantles your false identity.
as you can finally meet God on his terms.
Whatever level of self-construed control, whatever self-protection stuff we put up, God will just use the desert to pull it back.
See, it's hard to come before the great I am when in the back of your mind you're thinking, does he know how great I am?
The desert, it just clears that clutter instantly.
It removes who you thought you were, and it shows you who you really are.
More importantly, it shows you who God really is, and then who you are gets shaped out of that.
The second thing that the desert does is it reveals God's heart for you and me.
In the first few verses, it shows us what the desert takes, but the second section shows us what the desert gives back.
verses seven and eight give this beautiful description of God's care for his people in the Old Testament.
It says this in the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters.
I know their sufferings and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey.
to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Emmerites, the Prizites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites.
See, God wasn't asleep at the wheel.
He hadn't forgotten about his people.
He had always been watching.
He had always been waiting for the right moment, the right circumstances, and the right leader to bring them out of captivity.
Did you catch the verbs that God uses in his conversation with Moses?
God saw their pain.
He heard their cries.
He knew their suffering and he came down to deliver them.
Active, attentive, concerned.
For 400 years, the Israelites thought that God was distant, detached, and disinterested in their pain and their problems.
They had assumed maybe a decent assumption that after they had failed over and over and over again, that at some point God would give up and just move on.
But God says that the entire time he has been paying attention
that now he was ready to get even closer to them.
He wasn't a divine clockmaker that had put all of this together and then walked away.
He wasn't an impersonal force diffused through everything but doing very little.
He wasn't a score keeper, just keeping score in the sky.
He wasn't even just the laws of physics playing themselves out.
Notice the direction of his movement.
I came down.
If you're not familiar with Christianity, or maybe you're only familiar with another religion, basically every religion in the world has the directionality of you going up.
Moral accomplishments, following a specific code of conduct, you are climbing some sort of ladder to get to the God of every other religion.
Here's what sets Christianity the good news of Jesus the gospel apart.
You don't climb up to get him.
It starts by acknowledging you can't.
And the good news is you don't need to.
because he came down.
He comes down to a burning bush.
But this was not just like the spark.
It was this thing that would ultimately culminate in the story that will celebrate at Easter.
It was this future prediction and promise about what God would do for all of us.
And eventually, actually still in our future today, we'll celebrate this again when Jesus comes back again to set things right for the final and permanent restoration of all things.
Now, I'm sure that at this point, Moses was fully on board.
Like, okay, the plan is that you're going to deliver judgment and justice that will free your people that all get to watch from Egyptian captivity.
Let's do it.
Let me get the popcorn.
But God says, oh, no, no, no, Moses, I'm gonna use you to do that.
See, Moses, his response is so close to what I think a lot of us would do, like the way that we would respond in this moment.
The text says this, but Moses said,
to God, who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?"
Now, we might want to be hard on Moses in this moment, but consider this.
What we're hearing him describe is the voice of disqualification.
He's saying, I'm not good enough.
Moses looks at his resume, right?
He sees a significant gap in his work history.
He would have to disclose to any future employer a conviction for murder.
That feels career limiting, right?
He can't have a strong first impression because he has a debilitating stutter and speech impediment.
And at age 80, he qualified for Social Security decades ago.
Moses' question is about identity.
He thinks he can't measure up to the mission, but he's measuring the wrong qualities, the wrong qualifications.
God's response is not a pep talk.
It's not affirming specific, sovereignly appointed qualities that Moses has had and didn't realize.
He actually doesn't argue with Moses' point at all.
Instead, God says, but I will be with you.
In other words, Moses says, who have a high?
And God says, mine.
Do you see the shift?
Moses is wondering how he can do all of this work, and God is reminding him he isn't the one that's going to do all of this work.
God is, and God will be with him.
See, in the desert, we often learn that our qualifications are not what we see primarily in our resume.
They are really, if you're a follower of Jesus, found in the presence of God in your life.
The desert did not disqualify Moses.
It diagnosed his self-sufficiency.
all the areas he had been depending on himself unsuccessfully and unsustainably.
But even with some assurance from God, Moses still had one more question.
Anticipating the conversation that would come when he brought this to the Pharaoh's court, he asks for God's name.
He says, who should I tell them sent me?
And this is a pretty big movement in our passage because the desert, it anchors you in God's name.
And today that may feel insignificant,
But Moses, he's finally realizing that his resume is not the only relevant thing for this assignment.
And when Moses asks for God's name, it's really significant.
See, in the ancient world, knowing a God's name gave you access to that God's power.
It was like being given the contact information for that God that you could reach out whenever you needed and be given access to the power instantly.
Moses is basically saying, if I'm gonna do this crazy life-threatening thing that you ask me to do in a place that I'm wanted for murder and even law abiding people that look like me have been slaves for centuries, I'm gonna go ahead and need some instant and extra support.
I'm gonna need the help line, God.
And if you're unfamiliar with Hebrew literature, God's answer is wild and confusing.
This is what he tells Moses to tell the ruling court in Egypt.
God said to Moses, I am who I am, which, I mean, I just think about that as Moses at the time and I'm like, God, not that helpful, right?
And he said, say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you.
God also said to Moses, say this to the people of Israel, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob has sent me to you.
This is my name forever and thus I am to be remembered throughout all
generations.
Now, I want to get nerdy with you for just a minute, and some of you are like, get nerdy for a minute.
What's the rest of this been?
And that's hurtful.
I just want you to know that's a hurtful characterization, but I receive it.
But bear with me for just a second.
In English, this idea of I am who I am, it sounds like an ancient version of Popeye introducing himself, if we're honest, right?
I am what I am and that's what I am."
You're like, that's a pretty early reference to a cartoon that you probably don't know.
But in Hebrew, it's kind of incredible.
See, there's a covenant name for God that over time they would grow more and more familiar with.
We pronounce that Yahweh, but actually it was not originally designed with vowels.
It was just these letters that we translate YH or YWH.
It was created that way without vowels so that it would be unpronounceable on purpose
out of reverence, but it meant he is.
It pointed to an eternal self-existence.
That Yahweh pointed to the one who simply is, self-existent, uncaused, uncontained, without end, God.
And so when God says, I am who I am, he is speaking actually from the same root word that gives the covenant name Yahweh, the name that Israel would use to refer to him as he is.
It's like God saying, hey, you know how you talk about he is?
That's me.
God is speaking of himself, and he's revealing his eternal nature to a group of people who thought that hundreds of years was a long time.
But to Yahweh, to the God that was writing to them, it was nothing.
It was like the next day.
See, he isn't going to live forever.
God is not going to live forever.
God is forever.
Pharaoh's reign that seems unshakeable had a timeline.
Israel's suffering that felt like it would have no relief, it had a timeline.
Moses' exile that felt like it was the final word had a timeline.
But Yahweh, still to this day, thousands of years later, still has no timeline.
Moses needed to know that in the desert and you need to know it too, that you worship a God.
A God loves you who has no timeline.
He had let the desert shape who he was and who he believed he could be.
And that's what the desert can do if we're not careful.
See, the desert reminds you what defines you.
It will show you and me the things that we have let seep into our character and calling.
But if you remember nothing else from our time today, remember this, the desert doesn't disqualify you.
It's where God often delivers your destination.
If you want clarity, it never happens in comfort.
It happens in the desert.
God's name means that God
who met Moses in the desert is the same God who is meeting you in your desert, in your life, in your circumstances today.
He hasn't changed.
He hasn't retired.
He hasn't gotten older.
He hasn't lost interest.
He doesn't love you less.
Don't miss this anchor for your soul, this Lent, as we prepare for Easter, as we wait for Easter, both the holiday that we'll celebrate and the remembrance of the hope of the resurrection in the midst of our circumstances and lives.
The desert doesn't disqualify you.
It may be where you finally discover the destination that wasn't about arriving somewhere anyway.
As a matter of fact, it's always been about God appearing with you right now, today, wherever you are and whatever you're going through.
That's the God that gets close.
The burning bush, just like the resurrection, it wasn't an escape hatch for God.
It was an introduction to ordinary people.
to the reality and invitation of a God who loves them and would go to any lengths necessary, even all these thousands of years ago to communicate that hope, it really is for everyone.
See Moses, he needed to know that in the desert and you probably need to know it today too.
Because deserts, they don't just drain your energy, they try to rename you.
The desert is going to try to name you what you're going through.
For some of you, you feel like the desert you're going through is trying to rename you failure.
or delay or divorce or depression or diagnosis or job loss or relapse or infertility or grief or loneliness or burnout.
And if you stay in the desert long enough on your own without God and without people, you start to introduce yourself with your dysfunction.
I'm not feeling anymore.
I'm the one who couldn't.
You're not a daughter anymore.
You're the one who lost.
You're not a husband anymore.
You're the one who blew it.
You're not a believer anymore.
You're the one that God forgot.
And I need you to hear this clearly so that you can hear hopefully what God has for you.
God does not meet Moses in the desert and say, let me see your resume.
He says, take off your sandals.
And then he says a name that outlasts every desert you will ever face.
I am.
Not I was.
Not I will be someday.
I am.
Right here, right now, in this place.
Some of you, you've been waiting to feel close to God again until life gets cleaned up.
Until you feel strong again.
Until you stop crying.
Until you stop doubting.
Until you stop being angry.
Until you stop feeling numb.
But Exodus 3, it tells us the opposite.
It tells us that the desert doesn't disqualify you.
It's where God delivers your real destination.
What He actually wants to do in and through you.
And the destination is not a zip code.
It's not a title.
It's not a relationship status.
It's actually not rooted in your circumstances at all.
The destination has always been that wherever you are, you would say, I know that God is with me.
And I'm going to walk with him, allowing God to name you again.
God meeting you again.
God is steady when you are not.
Thank God.
So here's what I want you to do before we sing in just a minute.
If you're in a desert right now, any kind of desert, a desert that people maybe know about or one that they don't know about, would you just be honest with God in your heart for a moment?
Not out loud, just like for you, with God.
God, here's where I feel exhausted.
Here's where I feel discouraged.
Here's where I feel locked in with no escape.
Maybe you don't have the words for it.
Great news, we're reading about somebody that really struggled with words.
Moses, even if he had the words, he had a really bad stutter.
He had a really hard time getting them out.
If you don't know this about me for a long time in my life, I had a really bad stutter.
Moses is my boy, I get it.
It is overwhelming when you're going, I feel a certain way, but I don't have the words yet.
And God says, that's okay.
Just come to me.
So for the next moment, I just want you to picture your desert, whatever it is.
I want you to imagine not waiting for the finish line, not assuming that God is somewhere out there, but that God is right here right now.
He's standing with you in it.
He's calling your name because that's what he did here.
Remember, he said, Moses, Moses.
He didn't say leader.
He didn't say murderer.
He didn't say disappointment.
He didn't say wash out.
He said, Moses, for you, he's saying, son, daughter.
If God can call Moses by his name and median, he can call you by your name today.
So as we worship, whatever it looks like for you to come back to God, if you've been running, if you're feeling numb, if you're feeling angry, if you've been tired, don't climb up to God today.
Remember, that's how every other faith works.
If you try to climb up somewhere, you're gonna realize God was waiting for you where you left.
He's here right now with you today.
Wherever that finds you, whatever you feel culture pressing in and asking you to achieve or perform to gain the status of, God is the only entity, the only being in the universe, the great I am, Yahweh, where you have nothing to prove.
You have no one to impress.
His love for you is unshakeable, unquantifiable, incomprehensible, and infinite.
Let's pray that we would feel that together today.
God, I don't know the deserts of every person that's with us today, but you do.
You know what they're walking through.
You know what they're headed to.
You know the calendar that they see and the calendar that they don't yet.
Would you give us God a just an internal sense of relief that we can trust you?
You really are the great I am.
Would you give us God a fresh willingness to trust you in brand new ways, that whatever the unknown is in front of us, personally, professionally, spiritually,
that God, we would trust you.
Not someday, not for the arrival eventually, but right now today.
God, today is the only day that's promised.
Would you show up strong, even in these moments, that what we need for the week ahead, that what we need for the day ahead, we would receive from you right now.
In Jesus' name.
Amen.